

This model is from the article:  
**iRsp1095: A genome-scale reconstruction of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides metabolic network**   
Imam S, Yilmaz S, Sohmen U, Gorzalski AS, Reed JL, Noguera DR, Donohue TJ.
_BMC Syst Biol._ 2011 Jul 21;5:116.
[21777427](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21777427) ,  
**Abstract:**   
BACKGROUND: Rhodobacter sphaeroides is one of the best studied purple non-
sulfur photosynthetic bacteria and serves as an excellent model for the study
of photosynthesis and the metabolic capabilities of this and related
facultative organisms. The ability of R. sphaeroides to produce hydrogen (H2),
polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) or other hydrocarbons, as well as its ability to
utilize atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) as a carbon source under defined
conditions, make it an excellent candidate for use in a wide variety of
biotechnological applications. A genome-level understanding of its metabolic
capabilities should help realize this biotechnological potential. RESULTS:
Here we present a genome-scale metabolic network model for R. sphaeroides
strain 2.4.1, designated iRsp1095, consisting of 1,095 genes, 796 metabolites
and 1158 reactions, including R. sphaeroides-specific biomass reactions
developed in this study. Constraint-based analysis showed that iRsp1095 agreed
well with experimental observations when modeling growth under respiratory and
phototrophic conditions. Genes essential for phototrophic growth were
predicted by single gene deletion analysis. During pathway-level analyses of
R. sphaeroides metabolism, an alternative route for CO2 assimilation was
identified. Evaluation of photoheterotrophic H2 production using iRsp1095
indicated that maximal yield would be obtained from growing cells, with this
predicted maximum ~50% higher than that observed experimentally from wild type
cells. Competing pathways that might prevent the achievement of this
theoretical maximum were identified to guide future genetic studies.
CONCLUSIONS: iRsp1095 provides a robust framework for future metabolic
engineering efforts to optimize the solar- and nutrient-powered production of
biofuels and other valuable products by R. sphaeroides and closely related
organisms.

**Note:**

Rhodobacter sphaeroides model (Version 1)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

